What is git?

Git is version control system. But I wanted you know that for now, we will be using as central place to add and view our individual notes and projects. I will mention one major feature with any version control system and hence also with git which you need to know. Imagine you are writing an essay for your school project which may take a month. You have been editing this text document everyday. After editing for 10 days you thought, the one written 3 days back story is good and don't want any changes you have done for the last 3 days. What you might have done is take a backup of this document everyday like 1.txt, 2.txt, 3.txt etc., and now if you want to go back all you need is copy 7.txt and make as 10.txt and start working on it ( now you have lost 8, 9 and 10th day changes which you want anyway). This works for one file by one person. Imagine a team of 3 working on this text document and writing independently 3 different sections of it and want to combine now and then and make final copy before final submit. All these things will be made easy with any version control system like git, where multiple persons can work on the same text document , combine them, view what changes anybody has done and lot more.

What for we will be using git?

Even though git offers lot of features we may not use them all in this course. But doing with git will enable them to learn all these features in future.
git is being used by lot of companies for real and it will be useful for you to learn them now.
We will be using git for taking notes, exercises and any quizs.
Imagine you have taken a break from learning java and resuming again but want to refresh, then you can go to your github account and go through the notes, exercises and get up to speed quickly
Now-a-days companies look for your github account during hiring process, to see what you have learned and done and your github account can be added to your resume.

A repository is collection of files ( can contain folders)




HW



command	description
git status	shows the status of any additions/modifications/deletions
git add *	adds the files to local
git commit -m"some comment'	commits to local repository
git push origin master	finally they are in your github account



